Introduce Package Best Practices (#1101)
apple/swift-org-website: packages/best-practices/index.md

---
layout: page-wide
title: Package Best Practices
---

Swift Packages should follow a similar set of best practices across the ecosystem. This helps package users know what to expect when using packages and provides package authors some guidelines to follow when creating packages.

## Version Support

> Swift Packages should support the latest version of Swift and the previous tro minor versions. For example, if the latest version Swift is 6.1, packages should also support Swift 6.0 and Swift 5.10. This provides a balance between keeping up with the latest language features and maintaining compatibility with older versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Swift Packages should support the latest version of Swift and the previous two prior minor versions.
For example, if the latest version Swift is 6.1, packages should also support Swift 6.0 and Swift 5.10.
This provides a balance between keeping up with the latest language features and maintaining compatibility with older language versions.
```

(fix typo and break into a sentence per line to make it easier to read in the PR)

> New packages that are released can target only the latest version of Swift at the time of release if they choose to do so to make use of the latest language features and improvements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New packages that you release can target only the latest version of Swift at the time of release if you choose to do so to make use of the latest language features and improvements.
As that package evolves, grow into supporting two prior minor versions over time.
```

I suggest that the "new package" exception still call out that over time, they should follow the 2 prior minor version pattern. Also - I changed the wording to avoid passive voice.

## SemVer Versioning

Swift Package Manager relies on [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) to manage package versions. Packages should follow the SemVer guidelines, to ensure that dependency resolution works as expected and provides a good experience for consumers of packages.

This includes:

- Using [major, minor, and patch versioning](https://semver.org/#spec-item-2) to indicate breaking changes, new features, and bug fixes.
- Using [pre-release versions](https://semver.org/#spec-item-9) for offering early access to new features or changes that are not yet stable.
- Ensuring only breaking changes are introduced in major versions.
- Only releasing major versions when necessary, to avoid unnecessary churn in the ecosystem and provide a stable experience for package users.

> 

Reviewer: I think this would greatly benefit from a warning note to not assume that a tag with "1.0" is sufficient for SwiftPM. Maybe it should be, but in practice if you give it the short form tag (assumed "1.0" being equivalent to "1.0.0" - it doesn't fly and causes all sorts of hassle for the package/library author)

## CI and Testing

> Packages should include continuous integration (CI) and testing to ensure that the package works as expected across different versions of Swift and platforms. This helps catch issues early and provides confidence to package users that the package is reliable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Include and use continuous integration (CI) and testing to ensure that the package works as expected across multiple versions of Swift and platforms. This helps catch issues early and provides confidence to package users that the package is reliable.
```

(pedant nit: packages doesn't provide CI, you do)

> Swiftlang offers a number of [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/swiftlang/github-workflows) that can be used to set up CI for different Swift versions and platforms. There are also workflows for ensuring packages follow community standards and don't introduce breaking changes.

Reviewer 2: Is https://github.com/swiftlang/github-workflows supposed to be used outside the swiftlang org/projects? Last I heard the answer was a no. The README also says this:

> This repository will contain reusable workflows to minimize redundant workflows across the organization. This effort will also facilitate the standardization of testing processes while empowering repository code owners to customize their testing plans as needed. The repository will contain workflows to support different types of repositories, such as Swift Package and Swift Compiler.

Is the "recommendation" going to change to "https://github.com/swiftlang/github-workflows is for everyone to use!"? I'd like that although there will be questions about how to properly maintain that effort of "Swift GitHub Actions workflows standardization".

Or I guess alternatively you can change the sentence to refer to https://github.com/swiftlang/github-workflows as "sample workflows" instead of sounding like "what you should use".
